Now that we've got a better idea of what this feature is, we're going to take a look at a couple of
different ways of implementing it.
So let's get to it.
The first thing I want to do is just give you a very quick review on how our system works right now.
So at present we have the post service comments and query whenever a user submits a comment.
The comment service is going to emit an event over to the event bus of comment created.
The event bus is then going to take this event and send it out automatically to all the different services
inside of our app, including the comment service like so.
Now at present the post service and Common Service, although they receive this event, they don't actually
process it in any way.
They just say, okay, here's an event.
I don't really care.
The query service, however, does do some processing.
The query service is going to take this event and use it to understand this new comment that was just
created and it stores it inside of some local data structure.
So again, that's what's going on inside of our system right now.
I know we just did this.
And so it's kind of me repeating myself to tell you what's going on, but it's really critical for you
to understand this flow because the options are about to go through for implementing this new feature
are going to be pretty darn complex.
So with that having been said, let's get to it.
Let's take a look at option number one.
So an option number one.
I first want you to take a look at this diagram.
You'll notice that I've added in a new moderation service right here.
So this is going to be a service that is in charge of taking a look at a comment and deciding whether
or not it should be approved or rejected.
You'll also notice in this diagram I have removed the post service entirely.
That is not because we're going to delete the post service.
I just removed it for clarity so you can better understand this diagram.
This whole idea of comments and moderation, whatnot, really doesn't have anything tied to the post
service whatsoever.
Okay.
So in this idea with option number one, we're going to have a sort of chain going on where we're going
to have the incumbent service emit an event saying that a comment was just created.
The moderation service will then emit an event saying that the comment was moderated and then finally
the query service will persist, that comment.
So let's take a look at exactly what would occur.
So once again, we're going to have a user submitting a comment to the comment service.
The comment service will then immediately persist information about that comment as it is doing it right
now.
So it'll create some new record with, say, an ID and some content and probably the post ID as well.
But we'll just ignore that for right now because it's not a relevant property.
As soon as it persists.
That new comment, the comment service will then continue to emit an event over to the event bus of
comment created.
So it's going to throw this over to the event bus.
And the event bus in turn is going to send that event out to all of our different services as it is
doing right now.
Now with option number one, we're going to say that the only service that cares about and created is
going to be the moderation service.
So we're going to say with option number one, ferry service no longer cares about that event.
So functionally, only the moderation service is going to process common created.
The Moderation Service will take a look at the content of this comment and decide whether or not to
approve it or reject it.
So we'll say that in this case because content does not have the word orange.
The moderation service will approve this comment.
So to tell all the other services that this comment has just been approved, we'll have the moderation
service emit a brand new event that we're going to introduce right now called the Comment Moderated
Event.
The data of this event is going to have all the information about this comment along with the status
of the comment as well.
So in this case, we'll say status approved.
The moderation service will emit this.
It'll go over to our event bus.
And once again, it'll be sent to all of the different services inside of our app.
Now, the only service that probably cares about this event will be the query service.
The query service will listen for comment moderated.
It's going to take all the information out of that data property and persistent.
The query service will now know the ID of the comment, its content and its status.
As well.
Like so.
So now anytime someone makes a follow up request the query service, they will see.
Okay, here is a comment and its status is approved.
So let's talk about the pros and cons of this approach, because there are very much some very big negatives
to it.
The big negative to this approach is the fact that there is some delay between a user submitting a comment
and that comment actually being persisted by the query service.
So I want you to think back to the mockup we were looking at just a moment ago.
A comment truly has three states.
It can be approved as it is right here, rejected or pending moderation.
I want you to really think about that pending moderation state.
Right now, we are really assuming that this entire approval process by the moderation service is instantaneous
in nature, but it is entirely possible that maybe at some point down the line we decide that rather
than just checking to see if a comment has the word orange in it, maybe instead we rely upon a human
to moderate these comments.
A human cannot process comments or moderate them instantaneously.
It might take a person several seconds, minutes, hours, even days to read a comment and decide whether
or not to approve it or reject it.
So think about what would happen if our moderation service took a long time to run.
Let's go through this scenario again and assume that it's going to take some amount of time for the
moderation service to actually process a comment.
So once again, a user is going to submit a comment.
Comments service will persist that and the comment service will emit this event and that event is going
to be sent on over to the moderation service where it's then going to await actual moderation.
Now, at that point in time, we're essentially paused in this workflow.
Nothing else is going to happen any time soon.
And so in this scenario, well, that might sound okay, but I want you to really think about the user
experience, what happens to a user as they are actually using our application.
Think about what would happen if a user typed in some comment right here and clicked on submit and then
critically refresh the page.
When a user refreshes the page after submitting a comment, they expect to see the new comment listed
on here immediately, or at least something that says, Hey, your comment is awaiting pending or pending
moderation or something similar.
So with the approach we're discussing right now, we are saying that after a user refreshes their page,
they are not going to immediately see that comment from the query service right away because it's going
to take some amount of time for the moderation service to actually process that thing and then tell
the query service that there's this new comment.
So the downside of option number one is that this entire flow could potentially result in a user not
seeing the information that they just submitted very, very easily.
Now, I want you to understand that this idea of a user making a change and then not seeing that immediately
reflected, that's something that's going to come up all the time in this idea of microservices.
So this is a very big thing that we're going to discuss quite a bit throughout the course.
But just in this scenario, because of the possibility of the moderation service being ran by an actual
human, we're kind of exacerbating that problem.
So I think that option number one has a definite and immediate downside to it.
So as you can imagine, we're not going to go with option number one.
Now, let's take a quick pause right here.
We're then going to take a look at options two and three much more quickly now that we understand some
of the general issues that we're going to run into.